Powered by ResumeGemini
Sunkar Vivek Kumar
Summary
7 years of Experience on Oracle applications development using oracle RDBMS with solid understanding of SDLC and agile
methodologies . Work experience in LARA Booking and Documentation,Invoicing and Quotation modules. Experience in
design of UI using oracle forms and involved in Version control and deployment activity. Enhancement of PL/SQL codes in
Oracle forms and Reports in Oracle database. Good Experience writing Packages, Procedures, Triggers, functions ,views
,Ref Cursor and exception Handling. 1.8 years of work experience in building BI products, maintaining data pipelines,
scheduling cron jobs, data visualizations, insights generation and also a GCP Certified Data Engineer
Skills
Oracle Forms Oracle Database 10g/11g PL/SQL SQL Sybase ASEOLEDB Sybase servers
Stored Procedures Automation ETL Loads using SSIS Auditing of ETL loads in backend using SSMS
Data Visualization using PLX Creating various BI Products GCP Oracle PlSQL Developer TOAD Gitlab
Git Runner Scheduler jobs Performance tuning Parallel execution EHR load Python Oracle Reports
Unix Shell Scripting and E2E/Unit testing RDBMS AWS Amazon RDS DataFlow NoSQL (MongoDB) SDLC
Agile methodologies BitBucket ETL Star Schema Fact and Dimension tables Oracle SQL Developer
Microsoft SQL Server (SSIS SSMS) Functions Cursors Views Triggers PL/SQL packages Word
Powerpoint Serena Dimension
Education
National Institute Of Technology, Rourkela
B.Tech and M.Tech - Dual Degree inChemical Engineering, CGPA: 8.16/10
2018 | Rourkela, Odisha
Council Of Higher Secondary Education, Odisha
Intermediate in Science and Maths
May 2012 | Odisha
Percentage: 80.67
Indian Certificate Of Secondary Education, New Delhi
Matriculation
May 2010 | New Delhi
Percentage: 92.85
Experience
Infosys Limited
Technology Analyst
Aug 2018 - Dec 2021 | Bhubaneswar
HashedIn by Deloitte
Software Engineer II
Jan 2022 - Jun 2022 | Bengaluru
 Bengaluru
 8455084901  sunkar.vivek.kumar@gmail.com
 linkedin.com/in/vivek-kumar-9752881b7/  https://github.com/Vivek-data-scientist
Powered by ResumeGemini
Fractal Analytics Pvt. Ltd
Consultant (AI/ML)
Jun 2022 - Jan 2024 | Bengaluru
IQVIA RDS Pvt. Ltd
Software Development Engineer 3
Jan 2024 - Jun 2025 | Bengaluru
Hexaware Technologies
Data Integration Lead
Jun 2025 | Bengaluru
Awards
Project AQUA was awarded best project of year 2021 during my stint at Infosys , also rewarded with INSTA award for
exceptional all round performance in delivering critical requirements as part of production support.
Rewarded with Spot award for exceptional all round performance with minimal guidance during my stint at HashedIn
Technologies.
Rewarded with Orion award (cash prize of INR 3000) for exceptional performance in first 6 months during my stint at
Fractal Analytics.
Projects
LARA (Liner Agents and Real time Application), Application Developer, Oracle Forms, Oracle Database 10g/11g,
PL/SQL,
Worked as a Developer for designing user interface forms for application using Oracle Forms and PL/SQL in agile
methodology of SDLC,
Developed and maintained SQL code for database systems, with optimal response, analyzed complex data and designed
efficient database models., Strong in Unix Shell Scripting, created optimized SQL query, stored procedures and functions.,
Performance Improvement by tuning stored procedures, cursors using DBMS PROFILER, FORALL to reduce context
switching.
Good working experience in exception handling, processing bulk data using collections, efficient cursors and writing ad-
hoc queries in Oracle Database using SQL.
Designed simple packaging screens, item scanning screens, fields in User interface modules using oracle forms 10g/11g
and backend control through PL/SQL.Prepared test cases for new development and done Unit testing.
AQUA (Advanced Quotation Analytics Application), Database Developer and Production support, Oracle Forms,
Oracle Database 10g/11g, PL/SQL, SQL
Mentored a team of 3 members for Automation, UAT testing and production activity. Collaborated with stakeholders,
business analysts and software developers to gather and understand database requirements.
Database and scripting activities using DbGate, AWS RDS to create necessary database objects like tables, indexes,
sequences etc. to help in development phase., Participated in code reviews to ensure adherence to coding standards.
Maintained technical documentation for data models, schema diagrams etc.
AIM Speciality Healthcare, Database Developer and Production support, Sybase ASEOLEDB, Sybase servers, Stored
Procedures, Automation, DML/DDL Script tasks, ETL Loads using SSIS, Auditing of ETL loads in backend using
SSMS
Worked on analysis of requirements, as part of PI planning. Familiarity with ETL processes in carrying out critical data
loads of CPT codes as part of RBM solution, having line of business as Commercial.
Performed data analysis and profiling to identify quality issues and propose solutions for ETL load of treatment codes
along with membership file load process for OPD, containing highly confidential PHI.
Worked on load db and member procedure changes as part of some PSRs., Delivered adhoc scripts (DML/DDL) for
staging dry run and into production environments.
Google Youtube Partnerships Analytics and Data Science, BI Developer and Analytics Support, Data Visualization
using PLX, data feed refresh of staging tables through ZugZug
Powered by ResumeGemini
Data Pipelines and Workflow Scheduling in Plx UI, Creating various BI Products, GCP, Strong Analytical and Problem
solving approach to resolve complex data issues., Worked on data analysis of Youtube data, as part of Youtube
partnerships team.
Performed ETL by building new staging tables, helping data science team in surfacing key metrics in the BI products
consumed by Alphabet leads and strategic partner managers.
Automated monthly and weekly dashboards by building workflows and scheduling the cron jobs, thereby increasing the
productivity., Market Analysis of youtube creators data enrolled under YPP program, using interactive visualization to share
key insights to stakeholders.
Data Warehousing and data lake creation with deep understanding of data modelling for both Dimensional and Relational
concepts like Star- Schema Modeling, Snowflakes Modeling, fact and dimension tables.
AHA/IRP American Heart Association - CAD, Software Development, Database Developer, Oracle PlSQL Developer,
TOAD, GitLab, Git Runner
Worked as part of 3 registries CAD, AFIB and Ambulatory Quality.
Handled data processing of 0.4 million patient records on quarterly basis considering CPU utilization., Performance tuning
of large data tables by creating indexes such as B-Tree index etc
Maintained high quality BI Products in Reporting layer handled by Spotfire., Automated measure processing by writing
PLSQL scripts, stored procedures, functions, materialized views.,
Written PLSQL packages to implement new reports from scratch., Collaborated with stakeholders and team to carry on
release specific activities in both DryRun and Production environment until the changes go live,
Cross registry liquibase deployment using DBT ELT tool and storage in Snowflake as a cloud native data warehouse.,
Knowledge on Snowflake UDFs and procedures, created Snow pipe for real time data processing from AWS S3.
Certifications
Microsoft Azure AI fundamentals (AI 900)
Google Cloud Professional Data Engineer
Snowflake Associate Platform Certification
Language
English:Fluent Telugu:Mother tongue Odia:Basic Knowledge Hindi:Basic Knowledge